PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT (PWS) FOR Adversary Air Support (AAS) Services 1. General 1.1 Scope of Work: The contractor shall support the Air National Guard/A3O with AAS sorties in order to facilitate training for the Weapons School, Red Flag, and Operational Test adversary support. All aircraft support will be conducted within the United States. The contractor’s responsibilities will consist of operating, maintaining, and performance of tactically-relevant aircraft for air-to-air tracking, targeting, and AAS operations, to include associated equipment systems that interface with various platforms and ground force personnel. AAS sorties will integrate as part of the Aggressor Force in support of the Air National Guard adversary air requirements. AAS will simulate non-western threat aircraft capabilities in an air-air environment. The contractor will be available to provide face-to-face mission briefs and debriefs. The contractor shall provide all aircraft, aircrews, and maintenance personnel to support AAS sorties flown. 1.2 Background: Air National Guard (ANG) A3O requires adversary air to help increase fighter squadron combat mission readiness. 1.3 Period of Performance (PoP). The Period of Performance shall be one (1) Base Year of 12 months and four (4) 12-month option years. 1.4 Place of Performance. Primary locations for contract performance are: Volk Field, WI; Alpena, MI; Gulfport, LA; Savannah, GA; Klamath Falls, OR; Oahu, HI; or other locations approved by mutual agreement. 1.5 Operating Hours. The contractor shall provide services as scheduled 24 hours a day and seven (7) days a week. Exceptions include recognized US holidays, when the Government facility/installation is closed due to local or national emergencies, administrative closings, or similar Government-directed facility/installation closings. The contractor shall not perform services on the 10 recognized government holidays. 1.6 Quality Control (QC). The contractor shall develop and maintain an effective QC Plan (QCP) to ensure services are performed in accordance with this PWS. 1.7 Security Requirements. The contractor shall comply with all applicable installation/facility access and local security policies and procedures. 1.8 Pilot Minimum Standards: Federal Aviation Administration Letter of Authorization (LOA) in proposed aircraft; Current FAA Class II medical rating performed at the contractor’s expense; FAA instrument rating; FAA commercial pilot license; 700 tactical, fixed wing flight hours in a USN, USMC, or USAF jet aircraft; Pilot shall be a Subject Matter Expert (SME) on the AAS regulations and TTPs. Shall have a SECRET security clearance. 1.9 Contract Manager (CM). The contactor shall designate a CM who shall ensure performance under this contract. The name of this person, and an alternate who shall act for the contractor when the CM is absent, shall be designated in writing to the KO. 1.10 Safety. Designated onsite Contractor safety officer or designated safety representative will report all aircraft accidents and incidents immediately to the KO, and if on a military range, the Commanding Officer in accordance with the Mishap/Incident Response Guidance (M/IRG). This procedure provides a standardization guide for initial reporting required in the event of an aviation Mishap/Incident, non-aviation mishap or event requiring special reporting involving aircraft or personnel. The senior contractor’s representative at the mishap/incident site will contact the points of contact listed below immediately; they in turn will contact the appropriate offices. Any accidents/damage to the aircraft which occur during operation of the aircraft and contributing factor shall be the responsibility of the contractor. All costs to repair or replace aircraft parts and all additional ferry costs or travel costs that occur as a result of the accident shall be borne by the contractor. Responsibility for any damage to aircraft that results from other than pilot error will be determined on a case-by-case basis. 1.11 Government Furnished Property, Material, Equipment and Services (GFP/M/E/S): Contractor duties will be performed at military ranges and military operating areas. The Government will provide the property, material, equipment, and/or services listed below: Property: The Government will furnish the necessary workspace for the contractor to perform services outlined in this PWS to include desk space, telephones, computers and other items necessary to maintain an office environment. Aircraft will not be charged parking fees. Materials: The Government shall provide administrative supplies it deems necessary for the support of the duties required in this contract. Equipment: During the performance of the contract, Contractor will be provided access to the following Government Equipment on a "non-interference" basis: -Self servicing nitrogen cart along with high pressure nitrogen and pure nitrogen. -Universal Aircraft Tow bar -MC-2A Low Pac, NF-2 Lite Cart, LOX Cart -B-1 Maintenance Stand, B-4 Maintenance Stand -Land Mobile Radio (and frequencies) -Access to Wheel and Tire Shop -Hangar Space as Available Utilities: All utilities in the facility will be available for the contactor’s use in the performance of this contract. 1.12 Contractor Furnished Property, Materials, and Equipment (CFP/M/E): Except for those items specifically stated to be Government-Furnished, the contractor shall furnish everything required to perform these services. The contractor shall at all times manage and operate the aircraft under its own direction and control in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations, and the Government Flight Rules approved Flight Procedures. The contractor must provide all materials and support equipment required to maintain its aircraft. The contractor may have use of common ground support equipment and special tools and test equipment on a non-interference basis. 1.13 Consumables: The price per flight hour shall be at a wet rate including consumables such as: fuel, oil, oxygen, nitrogen, coolant. Fuel will be provided at Government rates. Government rate fuel will NOT be used for any other flights/efforts other than those scheduled/ordered under this contract. 2. Requirements. The contractor shall provide: 2.1 Sorties Support. Support the ANG with AAS sorties in order to facilitate exercise and training event adversary support. Each sortie will be approximately 60-90 minutes. The contractor’s responsibilities will consist of operating, maintaining, and performance of tactically-relevant aircraft for air-to-air tracking, targeting, and AAS operations, to include associated equipment systems that interface with various platforms and ground force personnel. AAS sorties shall integrate as part of each exercise in support of adversary air requirements. AAS shall simulate non-western threat aircraft capabilities in an air-air and air-ground environment. Tactical profiles may include, Beyond Visual Range (BVR) engagements, operational test support, dissimilar air combat maneuvers, offensive & defensive, with-in visual range maneuvers, multi-ship tactics and merges and flight from 300 feet AGL to 25,000 feet MSL. The contractor shall be available to provide face-to-face mission briefs and debriefs for every mission at a Secret level. The contractor shall provide all aircraft, aircrews, and maintenance personnel to support AAS sorties flown. Approximate flight hours will be 100 - 2500 over the course of the contract. Typical sortie rates are expected to be a daily 4-turn-4 supporting unit and exercise level training. The Contractor shall: Provide scheduling support consistent with each squadron’s scheduling requirements The POC must be available during operational periods. The contractor shall also designate a point of contact (company dispatcher, duty officer) for rapid response after duty hours. The POC listing shall be kept on file and updated as necessary. For mission planning and scheduling the Government shall give the contractor at least 12 hours advance notice before making major changes to the flying schedule requests. Flight operations may be scheduled and conducted at any time, 24 hours a day seven (7) days a week. Coordination will occur between the assigned schedulers. The Pilot in Command (PIC) has the final authority to determine whether an aircraft is airworthy and whether to launch or terminate a mission. All aircrew will be available for pre- and post-mission briefings within 60 minutes after landing unless otherwise coordinated with the applicable exercise director or flight lead. Contractor shall provide qualified, medically, and psychologically fit personnel consistent with the intended mission, duration and projected area of operation. 2.2 Operation of Aircraft: The contractor shall: Operate the aircraft to fly in formations up to a 6-ship as part of available adversary forces, and will be available for a minimum on station time of 60-minute sessions. Flying will be over land and over water. The aircraft performance required capabilities are indicated below: Provide aircraft that are capable of attack speeds of 350 knots indicated and be able to sustain maximum +5G and -2G turns. Aircraft shall have the capability to reach an elevation of 25,000 MSL. Ensure Aircraft can maintain loiter time of no less than 60 minutes on station, 100 nautical miles from base. When available, external tanks may be used to achieve time on station, provided that speed/turn and mission store requirements are maintained. AAR (Air to Air Refueling) may be utilized when necessary. All aircraft shall be operated in accordance with applicable Government aeronautical regulations, including United States Air Force (USAF) and local military flying directives. 2.3 Equipment Requirements: The contractor shall: Use the aircraft that is capable of recording all inter/intra flight communications and video of aircraft performance data and simulated shot data via an in-flight recording system comparable to those used in mil-spec aircraft (ex. F-15E, F-16, F-18, A-10, and AV-8). These recordings must be easily digitally transferred to an audio/video playback system for the primary use of mission de-briefs. Each aircraft shall be fire-control radar or jammer capable. Fire-control radars are desired to provide high-end, near-peer adversary capabilities. The Fire-control radars provide an aircraft and the pilot the capability to deliberately find, track, and employ ordnance against an opposing aircraft. Additionally, a radar track provides in-cockpit, self-defense indications to the pilot whose aircraft is being targeted by an adversary. An emission generator/radar generator only transmits a signal and neither provides targeting capability nor self-protection indications to the aircraft/pilot being targeted. Ensure one type of FAA approved Navigation System is functional on each aircraft such as: Tactical Air Navigation (TACAN), Automatic Direction Finder (ADF) Receiver System, with ADF indicator, Very High Frequency Omni Directional Range (VOR), or Global Positioning Systems (GPS),, etc. A GPS must be available for operations in remote areas where other navigational aids are not available. Provide at least two (2) Very High Frequency/Ultra High Frequency (VHF/UHF) radios in each aircraft. One radio in each aircraft must be UHF. 2.4 Logistics Public Aircraft Operation. The flight operations required by this contract have been determined to be Public Aircraft Operations (PAO) and shall be conducted under the USAF Technical Airworthiness Authority (TAA). The Contractor shall obtain the appropriate TAA/DTA issued Airworthiness Flight Authorization prior to conducting any Contractor Owned Contractor Operated (COCO) flight operations under this contract and provide to the COR prior to the start of flight operations. Maintenance. The Contractor shall maintain the aircraft IAW applicable regulations and standards. Operations. The Contractor shall operate the aircraft under 14 CFR. The contractor shall have a documented Standards and Evaluations (STAN EVAL) program to monitor pilots. The contractor shall have documented processes to include, but not limited to, train aircrew and document risk analysis, standardized crew communications, crew resource management, and deficiency reporting. The contractor shall maintain an initial and recurring training and evaluation documentation folder for each crew member. TECHNICAL EXHIBIT 1 Performance Requirements Summary PWS Paragraph Task Performance Standard Acceptable Quality Levels (AQL) Surveillance Method / By Whom 5.2 Provide Adversary Air sorties meeting the needs of the specified exercise, with aircraft and personnel as described in Sect. 5.2 95% of Sorties provided for any given exercise. 95% of sorties provided over the period of performance. 0% failure of the contractor over the period of performance (POP). COR will audit After Action Report from the Contractor. 